# How it starts #

The game will start with the Captain (you; Zelnick) in a flash new [ChmmrExplorer](ChmmrExplorer.md) ship at Procyon. You have been tasked with investigating a mysterious Shofixti distress signal: a [Shofixti](Shofixti.md) patrol that was on a mission to scout out new homeworlds has disappeared.

In the story you’ll fly to the star system from which the signal was sent. However, given the “open middled” nature of SC2, clearly you have the means to do some random travelling. Naturally you start by flying to [Chmmr](Chmmr.md) homeworld to see what’s up. The Chmmr will re-brief you on your task and suggest you be on your way. Visiting your New Alliance of Free Stars (NAFS) allies will result in lame conversations so eventually you’ll run out of leads and have no choice but to go on your mission.

With hints from Chmmr, Shofixti and [Melnorme](Melnorme.md) you find the system (Beta Naos) and once there, run into a hostile race (the [Lurg](Lurg.md)) whom the NAFS has not contacted before. The Lurg have also heard the Shofixti distress signal and have come to investigate. You must defeat the Lurg battlegroup to gain access to the planet.

At the planet you do an energy scan and come across a derelict Precursor ship. Once inside it, your lander team discovers an artefact – a mysterious [BlackOrb](BlackOrb.md) of Precursor origin, function: unknown. You order the lander team to recover the Orb. When the lander returns, you are attacked by a vast number of Lurg ships. Beta Naos resides in their Sphere of Influence and they are very interested in your find!

The fight is hopeless: In a cutscene your escorts get shot down one by one. Finally, your Explorer ship sustains fatal damage – your cargo bay suffers a direct hit, which causes the Orb to fling itself out of the ship straight through the hull. The Explorer spirals out of control towards the planet's surface below. You crash land on the surface. The Orb stays floating in the space amongst debris after the fight, unharmed. The Lurg steal the Orb, pump a few rounds into the Explorer wreckage from orbit, and leave without bothering to check if everyone’s really dead. They believe you have no means of escape.

> ( About the above two paragraphs - I have an alternate proposal: When you land, you find the ship, in bad shape, and people had been working on it recently - Lurg. Did they set it off on the Shofixti, or were they investigating after the accident too? We'll never find out. Anyway, you figure its important so you take it back up to the ship. Here would be a good time to have a cutscene of the captain examining the orb and the stuff the Lurg have attached to it. Then the Lurg show up, and say they're mad at you for blowing up their fleet, and issue a remote command that makes the orb yank your fleet down to the surface, hard, a bit like the Shofixti. The difference is, it wasn't aimed at you. Your ship and fleet still weren't made for the recoil/backwash, and are severely damaged.  -- Drachefly, 2012-01-23  )

Even though your Explorer vessel's remains still got some working systems and antimatter fuel in the tank, it’s now basically little more than a pile of junk. What’s worse, its hyperwave transmitter is smashed. With hope almost gone you assemble a team to examine your surroundings. The derelict [PrecursorShip](PrecursorShip.md) lies nearby... it exceeds all expectations. Apart from some surface scars and a big hole in the cargo hold it seems intact. With your knowledge and experience with Precursor machinery you and your tech guys are able to scavenge the Explorer's fuel supply and connect it to the Precursor vessel's systems. All the work and makeshift fixes take months, but in the end - the ship rumbles to life. You are able to limp back home.

> (It seems a little bit odd to introduce an entirely new ship this early into the game already: the player hasn't really grown to like the Explorer yet, and as such the severity of abandoning it in favor of the Precursor vessel seems a bit off. -- jorisvddonk 2:19 AM May 14, 2011)

( I would also indicate that the Lurg have stripped it of everything that could be moved, that they understood - no modules to speak of. The orb is its backup power supply, and, properly shielded, is the key to getting it going again --Drachefly, 2012-01-23  )

As with SC2 you now have a moddable Precursor vessel, which you can equip at Sol or Betelgeuse. Unfortunately in your absence the Chmmr have gone all weird and won’t supply you with infinite resources any more.

Upon your return to Procyon on a whole new ship the Chmmr indeed seem to have changed somewhat. They let you keep the vessel as a subject for research. But you do not have the means to pimp it out yet. As with SC2 there will be resource gathering and tech improving. See the [GettingTechnology](GettingTechnology.md) and [ResourceGathering](ResourceGathering.md) sections for more details. The Chmmr cease their support for you and instruct you to return to Sol to research the vessel at the starbase with a brief to report any finds to Procyon. At the starbase, Commander Hayes will have some information.

> (I would imagine that the Chmmr would really like to experiment with that Precursor vessel, rather than just let it take off and potentially get destroyed (!). Make sure there's a very good reason why they're not simply taking the Precursor vessel and giving you an Avatar or another Explorer in exchange. -- jorisvddonk 2:22 AM May 14, 2011)

From here, the game is open. As with SC2 you have a skeleton ship that you can improve with technological finds.