#labels Wiki
= Downloads =

== Project 6014 demo 0.2.1 ==
*Note: You MUST use 0.2.1 content packages! Packages with older version number (like 0.2.0) won't work!*

_Coming soon!!!_



The files are:

|| *File* || *Type* || *Size* || *Download* || *Download mirrors* ||
|| Windows Installer || Platform specific ||MB||[ ]|| [ ]||
|| OS X Application || Platform specific ||MB ||[ ] || [ ]||
|| Base content package|| Content (required) ||MB ||[ ]  || [ ]||
|| Alien voices package || Content ||39.8 MB ||[http://code.google.com/p/project6014/downloads/detail?name=P6014-0.2.1-prv-voice.uqm Voice package for 0.2.1.] || [ ]||
|| High quality music package || Content ||52.8 MB ||[http://code.google.com/p/project6014/downloads/detail?name=P6014-0.2.1-prv-3domusic.uqm HQ music package for 0.2.1.] || [ ]||
|| 640 x 480 Graphics package|| Content ||MB ||[ ] || [ ] ||
|| 1280 x 960 Graphics package|| Content ||MB ||[ ] || [ ] ||

* Ubuntu Linux / Linux Mint packages *

|| *File* || *Type* || *Size* || *Download* || *Download mirrors* ||
||p6014_0.2_i386.deb||32-bit binaries||MB||[ ] ||[ ]||
||p6014_0.2_amd64.deb||64-bit binaries||MB|| [ ] ||[ ]||
||p6014-content.deb||Content (required)||MB|| ||[ ]||
||p6014-3domusic.deb||Content||MB|| ||[ ]||
||p6014-voice.deb||Content||MB|| ||[ ]||
||p6014-hires2x.deb||Content||MB|| ||[ ]||
||p6014-hires4x.deb||Content||MB|| ||[ ]||

*Note: You MUST use 0.2.1 content packages! Packages with older version number (like 0.2.0) won't work!*

*Windows*
  * Just download the installer. That file will download the content for you.
  * If running the .exe directly doesn't work, you need to run the included .BAT file.

*Linux*
 * Ubuntu Linux / Linux Mint packages : These pootworms can be installed using _dpkg -i filename.deb_ or a graphical tool bundled with your distribution, and should work with the latest versions of Ubuntu Linux and Linux Mint. Previous versions of these operating systems may work (Ubuntu 11.04, for instance, works). 
 * If there are no packages for your Linux distribution, download the source files, compile your own version of the game (./build.sh uqm config, ./build.sh uqm) and then place the 'base content' .uqm file in content/packages. If you want hires content or any of the other addon packages, download the required .uqm files and place them in content/addons

*OS X* 
  * Download the OS X Application and the Base content package. (Other packages are optional.)
  * Follow the instructions inside the Application to install the packages.

----

Do post to the forums if you have any issues with installation or running the game.

*N.B.* Parts of these files are provided under the terms of the GNU General Public License (version 2); the Creative Commons License (Attribution, Non-Commercial, Share-Alike 2.5); and the Creative Commons License (Attribution 2.0).  These licenses are explained in the file [http://project6014.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/sc2/COPYING COPYING].  This file was inadvertently omitted from some release downloads.

----

See http://code.google.com/p/project6014/downloads for all downloads.