#labels Races
= Lurg =

  * *Connected races:* [VUX], [Baul]

== Historical info ==

The Lurg are quintessential parasites. They don't only eat the insides of the creatures which they need to protect themselves from the harsh environment, but also control them by growing and intertwining neurophysical connections to their hosts' nervous system. 

_They are the bad guys_. Absolutely ruthless and beyond compassion, they know no pity. They're the most powerful race in the rimward region of space. Their power lies in their excellence in manipulating and bending unwary victims to their will.

A long time ago they had vast territories in the far neighbourhood to the Dnyarri Empire, who they viewed as rivals -- even though the Dnyarri Empire was vastly superior in strength. They played schemes behind the curtains to undermine their foes, and they also had their role in the self-liberation of the two Ur-Quan subspecies.

Sometime after the First Doctrinal Conflict, they encountered the Ur-Quan Kzer-Za who conquered them. During the rituals of their subjugation, the Lurg told the Ur-Quan Lords how they "helped" them, with the expectation that the Lords will grant them special rights in the Hierarchy. But this revelation backfired. It was so disgusting to the Ur-Quan Lords that they immediately judged the Lurg as a major threat in the future, and decided not to grant them the option of becoming a Battle Thrall race. Instead they incinerated the Lurg homeworld.

However the Lurg survived, loathing the Kzer-Za for their rejection and the loss of their power. In the coming thousands of years, they tried to lay low and gather their strength to once again be powerful enough to start their schemes again, this time against the Ur-Quan Hierarchy.

They were undercover participants in the outbreak of the Great War, for the sake of weakening the Kzer-Za. They sped up the advance of the Kohr-Ah to bring the Second Doctrinal Conflict forward. They also assisted the Captain's effort to destroy the Sa-Matra so even if the Kohr-Ah destroy the Kzer-Za they won't have to deal with the Precursor superweapon later.

==The Exotics==

_... More coming soon ..._

==Hiding in Shadows==

In present day, the Lurg are involved in several conflicts around the rimward region of hyperspace, for the sake of increasing their chance of ultimate success. Examples are ...

  * The Chmmr corruption
  * The DAX pirates
  * The Kohr-Ah-Rath incursion
  * The enslavement of the Foon-Foon
  * The sabotage of Shofixti scout missions

_... More coming soon ..._

== Lurg Space ==

Wandering around in their SoI, the Player can make the discovery that there is nothing like a Lurg colony there. Instead most of the life supporting planets are populated with the _"Raw Prawns"_ the Lurg settled there to serve as hosts and potential starships.

_... More coming soon ..._

*LURG PRAWN*

Being biological organisms by themselves, the Prawns were the method of hiding for the Lurg from their pursuers. Back then when they encountered their enemies, the Lurg used their hosts to pretend as harmless sub-sentient space creatures, therefore avoiding conflict and detection.

In a course of thousands of years, the Lurg have seen no need to leave their unhappy lobster hosts. In fact, they only have refined their semi-biological technology to allow them take their prawns out of their natural habitat, forcing them to live as long as possible to provide the most benefit. As the Lurg put it _"The Prawn is a lower lifeform, genetically altered... designed by us to survive in the void of space."_