#summary A list of all the missions and side missions available here for the full game.
#labels Gameplay

= Tasks to Complete =

This is a list of tasks, missions, and side-quests for the player to complete. These are reasons for the player to visit these races or pick up these objects to finish the game.

==MAIN QUEST==
  * Complete the [Mmrnmhrm] Quest.
  * Go to the Mother Ark, now orbiting (Mmrnmhrm hideout).
  * Learn that the Mother Ark can help in the main quest.
  * Complete [Faz] Quest.
  * Come back to the Mother Ark with a Central Nexus absorbed, and let the Mother Ark AI migrate into the Explorer.


==[Baul]==

*"HELP THE BOSS"*

  * Visit the Boss at (Foon-Foon homeworld) and learn about the Boss' problem with the rebels.
  * Make a deal with the Boss and take a Baul observer escort.
  * Go to (Rebel Base) and destroy the [FoonFoon Foon-Foon] Typhoons there.
  * Bring the Baul observer escort back to the Boss at (Foon-Foon homeworld)

*"HELP THE OVERBOSS"*
  
  * Learn the location of (Baul homeworld) from [Melnorme] or [Baul]
  * Visit the Overboss at (Baul homeworld) and make a deal with him.
  * Complete the Foon-Foon quest.
  * Defeat the Boss' Punisher.

==[Faz]==

  * Go to (Faz Homeworld)
  * Use [SlaveShieldBuster Slave-Shield Buster]
  * Search surface buildings for the source of the carrier wave.
  * Wake up the Faz Philosopher, and learn more about his VR world.
  * Visit Fwiffo at (Epsilon Gruis IA), and learn about his [MelnormeFunROMs Melnorme FunROMs].
  * Borrow a FunROM from Fwiffo, the one that best resemble the Faz Philosopher's description.
  * Wake up the Faz Philosopher on (Faz Homeworld), and answer a series of questions correctly to make him wake the rest of the Faz.
  * Take the [CentralNexus Central Nexus].

==[FoonFoon Foon-Foon]==

  * Go to Androsynth sanctuary (Armstrong const.) OR visit a Melnorme Trader for information on the location of the rebel base.
  * Ask Foon-Foon rebels at (Rebel Base) for information on the Cloaking technology and the plan to overthrow the Baul.
  * Search for Ilwrath Cloaking Device at Ilwrath homeworld (Alpha Tauri I).
  * Bring a Lander and an Ilwrath Cloaking Device to (Rebel Base), and let the Foon-Foon engineers rig the device to the lander.
  * Enter the orbit of (Foon-Foon Moon) and use Stealth Lander.
  * Destroy Moon Cannon within time limit.

==[Mmrnmhrm]==

  * Go to (Mmrnmhrm hideout)
  * Find the Mother Ark on the surface, and learn that a [PowerCore Power Core] is needed.
  * Acquire Power Core by defeating DAX OR by defeating the [FoonFoon Foon-Foon] Rebels.
  * Bring Power Core to (Mmrnmhrm hideout) and contact the Mother Ark with a lander. Use the Power Core in a new conversation option.

==[Shofixti]==

  * Learn of the Shofixti problem from Hiruko at Kyabetsu (Delta Gorno I)
  * Complete the [XenWeyi Xen-Weyi] quest "FREE THE XEN-WEYI!"
  * Get the [GenesisDevice Genesis Device] from the Xen-Weyi.
  * Bring the Genesis Device to Kyabetsu and give it to Hiruko.

==[Syreen]==

  * Visit the Syreen homeworld and tell them of your mission.
  * They will give you a new ship.

==[XenWeyi Xen-Weyi]==

*"FREE THE XEN-WEYI!"*
  * Learn the location of (Xen-Weyi homeworld) from the [Melnorme] OR [Baul]
  * Go to (Xen-Weyi homeworld)
  * Use [SlaveShieldBuster Slave-Shield Buster]

*"SAVE THE XEN-WEYI!"*
  * Complete the "FREE THE XEN-WEYI!" quest.
  * Go to Spathiwa (Epsilon Gruis I).
  * Use [SlaveShieldBuster Slave-Shield Buster] on Spathiwa.
  * Get [SlaveShieldGenerator Slave-Shield Generator] from the Spathiwans.
  * Go back to (Xen-Weyi homeworld) in time and give the Slave-Shield Generator to the Xen-Weyi.