#labels Races
= Mmrnmhrm =

  * *Connected races:* [Chmmr], [Faz], [Slylandro]
  * *Connected devices:* [MmrnmhrmFix] for Chmmr, [ReactorCorePowerUnit Power Core]

==Historical info==

The original Mmrnmhrm were produced by a Mother Ark which travelled into the Virginis constellation about a millennium ago. They were thought to be "wilderness tamers"/pre-colonizers for some other race, and thought to only have merged with the Chenjesu to stave off extinction since the Mother Ark broke down and couldn't produce any more Mmrnmhrm since before the start of the Great War.

The source of the Mother Ark's breakdown was that her power core was damaged. The only power source big enough to power up the Mother Ark is of starbase scale, and those things take years and bazillions of RU to manufacture. To solve this problem, the Mmrnmhrm tried to set up a colony in the Beta Herculis system for exploiting the resources of the constellation before the war, but due to the Spathi protest their effort broke down before it could have started.

During the war, the Mmrnmhrm moved the Mother Ark out of harms way from Virginis and rimward, avoiding the advancing Hierarchy fleets. With the number of Mmrnmhrm drones dwindled due to war casualties, and the segregation of the majority of Mmrnmhrm by the Slave-Shield on Procyon, constructing a power core became a hopeless endeavour. It was clear the war was lost, and so the remaining free Mmrnmhrm decided to move the Mother Ark further out to some remote star system, in the hope that someday the Mmrnmhrm will be freed and she can awaken again.

_... More coming soon ..._

==The Mother Ark==

Information about the Ark's location can be learned from the [Slylandro].

The lander party discover that the [PowerCore Power Core] of the Mother Ark needs to be replaced. The NAFS have several starbases, but understandably the Captain can't just tear out their Cores. The solution presents itself once you locate the VUX rebel DAX and his secret starbase hideout. When you've defeated DAX and his cronies you can ransack the starbase and take its power core. The other option to obtain a Core is to ally yourself with the [Baul] Boss and eliminate the [FoonFoon Foon-Foon] Rebels, and take _theirs_ instead.

Once the Ark powers up, she and her children awake and she raises to orbit the planet and starts churning out more new X-Forms. Their SOI begins to grow. From now on you can talk to them. They're generally friendly and sympathetic, interested in the outcome of the war.

_... More coming soon ..._

----

*NOTES FOR VOICE ACTING*

The best voice effect I can think of for the Mmrnmhrm is the auto-tune voice one can hear in Saints Row 3 and Portal. Our robots _sing_ their dialogue, making them sound adorable and sympathetic. The Mother Ark has -- of course -- a female voice, while X-Form drones have high pitched male voice.