#summary List of hints and unresolved questions from the original game
#labels Story,Races

= SC2 Story Hints and Mysteries =

The original Star Control 2 game remains in our memory, above all, because if its outstanding and complex story, spanning over 20,000 years of history.

Through conversations, the player discovered the richness of the underlying plot, but many aspects raised during the original game remains shrouded in mystery.

This is excellent because it provides storytellers a good starting point for new plot lines and background history. This page is a repository of each and every rumor, hint, story or mystery raised by the original SC2 story and that we may, or may not decide to use to build additional story.

To help us compile an exhaustive list of these hints, you can use the [http://uqm.stack.nl/diff/arilou.html UQM conversation document] to track every dialogue from the original game.

== The list of mysteries ==

 * What is the [Ariloulaleelay Arilou's] secret interest in Human beings (other than changing our *smell* to protect us from IDF beings)?
 * Are [Orz] the only IDF beings the [Ariloulaleelay Arilou] were afraid / were hinting about?
 * Where did the [Androsynth] disappeared?
 * Is there a Black Spathi Squadron?
 * Where do the Ur-Quan and Kohr-Ah come from? (They don't seem to have any homeworld in this galaxy, Hayes says they appeared at Ophiuchi constellation at first)
 * Why did Mycon joined the UrQuan voluntarily?
 * What happened to the [Mmrnmhrm] Mother-Ark and why was the Mother Ark never repaired?
 * Where does the Sa-Matra come from?
 * Who are the Precusors?
 * Why did the Precusor left over less than a decade?
 * What are the rainbow world? (I have read some interesting ideas about this vs the Orb in the current plot)
 * If the [Mmrnmhrm] is a fully automated robotic race, are they "preparing" the galaxy for the colonization of their real owners? (hinted by commander Hayes)
 * It is hinted that Umgah and [Ariloulaleelay] have had a relationship for a long time. What was their common history?
 * The commander mentioned that [Androsynth] hates us "because our grandparents kept them as slaves of humans for 50 years". What's that all about?!?
 * The [Ariloulaleelay] hinted they had "some fun" with the Traddash before. What happened?
 * What happened to the precursor starbase hinted to be on Alpha Centauri?
 * Pkunk hinted Illwrath used to be very "good, shiny beings of light". What happened? How did they end up switching to become Evil? Can they be brought back to light?
 * What was hidden deep under the ice cap in Antarctica and that was targeted by the Ur-Quan when they enslaved Earth? Same for Atlantis in the south eastern Atlantic ocean?