Taalo

  * *Connected races:* [Arilou], [Orz]
  * *Connected devices:* [TaaloFix] for Chmmr, [OrzSpaceEscapeDevice]

== Summary info ==

“The Taalo live!” A bit presumptuous for me to bring them back but might as well. The Taalo were experimenting with IDF when the [UrQuan] started finishing off Milieu members, and that's how some of them escaped into *below*, evading destruction.

Taalo will be accessed from Orzspace. Perhaps Orz are still *chasing* Taalo in this dimension. Don’t know. Taalo will be instrumental in fixing the silicon part of the Chmmr. They’ll give you this if you deliver a comatose [Chmmr] to them as a sign of good will and because they're so nice. 

The Taalo want you to free them from Orzspace. They aren't in a mortal danger in Orzspace, but they're not home there either. They want to return. You may or may not help them, but if you do, you get them to ally you. You need the Temporal Wrapper device from the Arilou for this, but it alone isn't enough! The truespace [Androsynth] will make a larger version of the Temporal Wrapper in order to help the Androsynth "trapped" in Orzspace. You can use this device to free the Taalo.

When you spring the Taalo free, they'll co-exist with the Orz at Vulpeculae *Taalo playground* and the neighborhood: Since the Orz seemed to react pretty favorably to Taalo in SC2, it could be that they don't actually mind whether the Taalo are in Orzspace or in truespace... They're just kinda happy to have *friends*.

The Taalo will provide information on the real state of the Androsynth in OrzSpace.

Will want you to be merciful with the Ur-Quan and [KohrAh], and demand promise of this upon allying them. This will result in shocked/reproaching attitudes from your allies, particularly the Shofixiti and the militarily minded [Yehat]. However, it might not result in anything concrete (in this sequel anyway ;).

== Detailed info ==
